1) Data base
A database (DB), in the most general sense, is an organized collection of data. More specifically, a database is an electronic system that allows data to be easily accessed, manipulated and updated.
In other words, a database is used by an organization as a method of storing, managing and retrieving information. Modern databases are managed using a database management system (DBMS).

2)data model
A data model refers to the logical inter-relationships and data flow between different data elements involved in the information world. It also documents the way data is stored and retrieved. 

3)Schema
A schema is the structure behind data organization. It is a visual representation of how different table relationships enable the schema’s underlying mission business rules for which the database is created.


4)Instance
The data stored in database at a particular moment of time is called instance of database. 

5)table
It is a collection of related data stored in a structured format.It has rows and columns.

6)view

Definition - What does View mean?
A view is a subset of a database that is generated from a query and stored as a permanent object. Although the definition of a view is permanent, the data contained therein is dynamic depending on the point in time at which the view is accessed. 


7)Data definition language 
A data definition language (DDL) is a computer language used to create and modify the structure of database objects in a database. These database objects include views, schemas, tables, indexes, etc. 


8)Query
A query is a request for data or information from a database table or combination of tables. 

9)Data manipulation language
A data manipulation language (DML) is a family of computer languages including commands permitting users to manipulate data in a database. This manipulation involves inserting data into database tables, retrieving existing data, deleting data from existing tables and modifying existing data. DML is mostly incorporated in SQL databases.

10)Relation model
 it is a method of structuring data using relations, which are grid-like mathematical structures consisting of columns and rows.

11)ER model
An entity-relationship model (ERM) is a theoretical and conceptual way of showing data relationships in software development. ERM is a database modeling technique that generates an abstract diagram or visual representation of a system’s data that can be helpful in designing a relational database. These diagrams are known as entity-relationship diagrams, ER diagrams or ERDs.




